Revise RFC1, 2 & 3 to replace status-code (#60)
comit-network/RFCs: RFC-002-SWAP.md

      "protocol": "...",
    },
    "body": { ... },
  } 
}
```

### SWAP RESPONSE frame

#### Accepted SWAP REQUEST

```json
{
  "type": "RESPONSE",
  "id": 0,
  "payload": {
    "headers": {
      "decision": "accepted"
    },
    "body": { ... },
  }
}
```

#### Declined SWAP REQUEST

```json
{
  "type": "RESPONSE",
  "id": 0,
  "payload": {
    "headers": {
      "decision": "declined"
    },
    "body": { ... },
  }
}
```

## Registry extensions

This RFC extends the registry with the following elements:

### The type `Ledger`

A section "Ledgers" is added to the registry which tracks all currently defined ledger types.
Subsequent RFCs can refer to this type if they want to define a particular ledger.

### The type `Asset`

A section "Assets" is added to the registry which tracks all currently defined asset types.
Subsequent RFCs can refer to this type if they want to define a particular asset.

### The type `SwapProtocol`

A section "Protocols" is added to the registry which tracks all currently defined protocols.
Subsequent RFCs can refer to this type if they want to define a particular swap protocol.

### The type `DeclineBody` and the initial set of possible values

> A section "DeclineBodys" is added to the registry which tracks all currently defined reasons.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A section "DeclineBody" is added to the registry which tracks all currently defined reasons.
```

Subsequent RFCs can refer to this type if they want to define new reasons for declining SWAP REQUESTs.

The following `DeclineBody`s are added to the list.
Each heading represents a `reason`.

#### `unsatisfactory-rate`

The rate of `alpha_asset` to `beta_asset` is not satisfactory to the receiver.

##### `details`

TBD 

#### `protocol-unsupported`

The protocol specified in the `protocol` header is not known to the receiving party.

##### `details`

TBD <!-- List known protocols in details -->

> #### `unknown-ledger`

Author: Interesting idea.

`unknown-ledger` could be something that is generated by a deserializer (hence automatic) whereas `unsupported` would mean a configuration somewhere.

I am leaning towards having that separated because (1) means there is no point in retrying and (2) might be successful later.

> #### `unknown-ledger`

Reviewer 2: For me this was more of a semantical issue, i.e. `unsupported-ledger` implies `unknown-ledger` while the other way around does not hold, e.g. we could have a generic ledger implementation which can handle any ledger (🕺)

> #### `unknown-ledger`

Reviewer 3: The separation sounds good but I do not see any `unsupported-*` in the file. Please add it.

- [Examples](#examples)
    - [SWAP REQUEST frame](#swap-request-frame-1)
    - [SWAP RESPONSE frame](#swap-response-frame-1)
        - [Successful negotiation](#successful-negotiation)
        - [Failed negotiation](#failed-negotiation)
- [Registry extensions](#registry-extensions)
    - [The type `Ledger`](#the-type-ledger)
    - [The type `Asset`](#the-type-asset)
    - [The type `SwapProtocol`](#the-type-swapprotocol)
    - [The type `NegotiationError`](#the-type-negotiationerror)
    - [Headers](#headers-2)
    - [The following `NegotiationError`s](#the-following-negotiationerrors)
        - [`unsatisfactory-rate`](#unsatisfactory-rate)
            - [`details`](#details)
        - [`protocol-unsupported`](#protocol-unsupported)
            - [`details`](#details-1)
        - [`unknown-ledger`](#unknown-ledger)
            - [`details`](#details-2)
        - [`unknown-asset`](#unknown-asset)
            - [`details`](#details-3)

## Introduction

This RFC introduces defines two things:

1. A terminology for describing the exchange of assets
2. A REQUEST/RESPONSE pair of messages for `BAM!` to negotiate such an exchange between two parties

## Terminology

> To describe the elements of an exchange, we are using the terms `Ledger`, `Asset` and `Alpha/Beta`.

Author: ```suggestion
To describe the elements of an exchange, we use the terms `Ledger`, `Asset`, `Alpha` and `Beta`.
```

Such an exchange can thus be described as
- transferring the ownership of the **alpha-asset** on the **alpha-ledger** from party A to party B
- transferring the ownership of the **beta-asset** on the **beta-ledger** from party B to party A

This terminology has several advantages:

1. it does not imply an order (compared to a terminology like **first**/**second**)
2. it is not subjective to any of the parties (compared to a terminology like **source**/**target**, **incoming**/**outgoing** or **local**/**remote**)

## BAM! messages

The messages to negotiate such an exchange consist of a `REQUEST` frame and an according `RESPONSE` frame.

### SWAP REQUEST frame

#### Definition

A SWAP REQUEST message is a `FRAME` of type `REQUEST`.
[As per definition](./RFC-001-BAM.md#type-1) in `BAM!`, a `REQUEST` `FRAME` has a `type` that defines its semantics.
For the SWAP REQUEST message, this type is `SWAP`.

#### Headers

To express all the information for an exchange, a SWAP REQUEST MUST include the following headers:

- `alpha_ledger`: describes the ledger the alpha-asset is tracked on
- `beta_ledger`: describes the ledger the beta-asset is tracked on

> - `alpha_asset`: describes the asset who's ownership is transferred on the alpha-ledger

Reviewer: errr it should be `alpha_ledger` though.

> - `alpha_asset`: describes the asset who's ownership is transferred on the alpha-ledger

Author: ```suggestion
- `alpha_asset`: describes the asset who's ownership is transferred on the `alpha_ledger`
```

> - `beta_asset`: describes the asset who's ownership is transferred on the beta-ledger

Author: ```suggestion
- `beta_asset`: describes the asset whose ownership will be transferred on the `beta_ledger`
```

- `protocol`: describes the protocol that is used to transfer the ownership of the assets

This RFC only defines these headers.
The actual definition of ledgers, assets and protocols is not subject to this RFC.

#### Body

The body of a SWAP REQUEST depends on the chosen `protocol`.
It is therefore subject to RFCs which define such protocols to also define, which information is contained in the `body` of a SWAP REQUEST/RESPONSE frame.

### SWAP RESPONSE frame

#### Definition

A frame of type `REQUEST` implies a `RESPONSE`.

> We will refer to the response of a `SWAP REQUEST` as SWAP RESPONSE.

Reviewer 4: :wrench: Only place where swap request or swap response is highlighted this way.
```suggestion
We will refer to the response of a SWAP REQUEST as SWAP RESPONSE.
```

The SWAP RESPONSE serves two purposes:

> 1. It contains the result of the negotiation initiated through the SWAP REQUEST

Reviewer 4: :upside_down_face: 
```suggestion
1. It contains the result of the negotiation initiated through the SWAP REQUEST.
```

> 2. It allows the receiving party to communicate information 

Reviewer 4: :upside_down_face: 
```suggestion
2. It allows the receiving party to communicate additional information.
```

#### Headers

The response MUST contain the following header:

- `negotiation_result`

The `negotiation_result` header is defined as follows:

- `value`: `successful` OR `failed`.
- `parameters`: None

#### Body

Together with the the value of the `protocol` header, the `negotiation_result` header determines the `body` of a SWAP RESPONSE.

> In the case of a `successful` negotiation, the `body` of the response will contain the necessary information for the swap to start.

Author: What should the header name be then?

- `swap_result`?
- `result`?
- `swap_status`?

> This entirely depends on the chosen `protocol` and is thereby subject to the `protocol`s RFC to define the `body`.

Reviewer 4: :x:
```suggestion
This entirely depends on the chosen `protocol` and is thereby subject to the `protocol`'s RFC to define the `body`.
```

In the case of a `failed` negotiation, the `body` of the response MAY contain an object of type `NegotiationError`.
A `NegotiationError` is an object with a two properties:

> - `reason`: A string, acting as the identifier for this `NegotiationError`.

Reviewer 4: :x:
```suggestion
- `reason`: a string acting as the identifier for the `NegotiationError`.
```

> - `details`: An object containing more information about the error, depending on the given `reason`.

Reviewer 4: :upside_down_face: 
```suggestion
- `details`: an object containing more information about the error, depending on the given `reason`.
```

A section "Ledgers" is added to the registry which tracks all currently defined ledgers.

### The type `Asset`

Subsequent RFCs can refer to this type if they want to define a particular asset.
A section "Assets" is added to the registry which tracks all currently defined assets.

### The type `SwapProtocol`

Subsequent RFCs can refer to this type if they want to define a particular swap protocol.
A section "Protocols" is added to the registry which tracks all currently defined protocols.

### The type `NegotiationError`

Subsequent RFCs can refer to this type if they want to define a particular negotiation error.
A section "Negotiation Errors" is added to the registry which tracks all currently defined errors.

### Headers

| Header name          | Value                      |
| -------------------- | -------------------------- |
| `alpha_ledger`       | `Ledger`                   |
| `betaledger`         | `Ledger`                   |
| `alpha_asset`        | `Asset`                    |
| `beta_asset`         | `Asset`                    |
| `protocol`           | `SwapProtocol`             |
| `negotiation_result` | `"successful" OR "failed"` |

> ### The following `NegotiationError`s

Reviewer 4: :upside_down_face: 
```suggestion
### Several instances of `NegotiationError`
```

In the following section, each heading is a `reason`.

#### `unsatisfactory-rate`

The rate of `alpha_asset` to `beta_asset` is not satisfactory to the receiver.

##### `details`

TBD 

#### `protocol-unsupported`

The protocol specified in the `protocol` header is not known to the receiving party.

##### `details`

TBD <!-- List known protocols in details -->

#### `unknown-ledger`

A ledger referenced by the sending party is unknown to the receiving party.

> Note that different networks of the same blockchain are different ledger!

Reviewer 4: :wrench: 
```suggestion
Note that different networks of the same blockchain are different ledgers!
```
